I want to talk
about um the difference between two
types of
surprises or two types of
contingencies um the one type of
surprise is what is referred to as risks
and risks we can ensure against and the
other type of surprise are
uncertainties uncertain
events uh against which we can not
ensure
ourselves this distinction
between uh risks on the one hand and
uncertainty on the other hand um was
introduced in the economics
literature by Frank
knight uh
a famous book uh risk
uncertainty and profit that appeared in
the early
1920s Frank Knight was one of the big
men of the Chicago school but has in
fact when it comes to this distinction
little in common anymore with what came
after after him um and uh later on lud
Fon
mes um made the same type of
Distinction um he didn't call it risk
and uncertainty he called it there are
two types
of probable statements one that he
referred to as class
probability and the other one that he
referred to as case
probability and this distinction that
both of these economists
made um has its foundation in some work
that was done by ludic Fon mises's
brother uh Richard F mes who was a
famous mathematician was also a member
of the Vienna Circle the schlick K that
I mentioned in my
introductory lecture just let me say a
few few words just to introduce Richard
F mes uh to you um Le had for misus was
two years younger than his brother but
uh was born in 1883 misus was lud was
born in
1881 and Richard died in 1953 in my
introductory lecture I missed lud
forus year of of his death I dated that
at
1981 in that case misus would have been
100 years old um and actually he died in
uh in
1973 the 81 was just his birthday but
100 years before that's why I missed up
on uh messed up on that um so rard forus
was a professor of mathematics at the
University of Strasburg from
1909 to
1919 Strasburg at that time uh was part
of Germany and was then lost to France
after World War I and became a French
city but it is still in character a
German City I will not blame gilo Hilman
for this uh event that happened
um obviously he had nothing to do with
this um and then in so he had to leave
Strasburg because it became French and
then in
1921 he was appointed professor of
mathematics and director of The
Institute of Applied Mathematics at the
University of Berlin which was at that
time probably the world's foremost
University uh he was a colleague of
Albert Einstein who had the Institute
was the head of the Institute of physics
and he was the head of the Institute of
mathematics and when when the National
Socialist dismissed rard Fus from his
post because he was
Jewish um actually at that time he had
already converted to Catholicism but
nonetheless um the Nazis did not
recognize something like this I guess um
so then he in 1933 Richard Fon mes went
to uh Istanbul in Turkey um where again
he worked until
1939 uh at the professor of mathematics
and then he immigrated to the United
States um where he finished his career
as professor of aerodynamics and Applied
Mathematics at at Harvard um and um his
most important book dealing with
probability
Theory um was initially published in
German then translated into English is
called probability statistics and Truth
um I should mention that for the
theoretical part that I'm covering here
I have also an article uh that was
published a few years ago in the
quarterly Journal of Austrian economics
uh with the title the limits of
numerical probability so if you want to
uh deepen your understanding of what I'm
going to say here I simply refer for you
to this um to this article
um I
have some sort of
theoretical problems that I want to
discuss and then I want to
apply um apply these theoretical
considerations in particular to the
problem of uh Health in health insurance
so I begin with the slightly more
difficult theoretical things and then I
hope the things will become clearer uh
as I apply them to the case of
um of health of health
insurance
um let me Begin by giving you an
intuitive understanding of uh the
workings of
insurance uh and then delve into some
theoretical problems a little bit more
deeply um
any type of insurance involves the
pooling of individual
risks um and it implies that to some of
the
insured more will be paid out than what
they paid in uh in terms of insurance
premiums and to others uh less will be
paid out uh than they paid in in terms
of uh insurance
premiums um but the decisive Mark of
insurance is that no one of the people
who takes out insurance knows in advance
who the winners will be the winner being
those of course who get paid out more
than they paid in um and no one knows if
he will be a loser that is if he will be
one of those that paid premiums but
nothing happened to them um so the
winners and the losers are distributed
so to speak
randomly and every every insurance does
involve obviously some income
redistribution uh but the income
redistribution is random it is
unpredictable no one knows well whether
he will be on the winner side or on um
on the losers side
otherwise if the winners or the losers
could be systematically
predicted uh the losers would not want
to pull their risk with the winners but
only with other losers um to give you an
example let's say you are a professional
football player um and another person is
uh like myself sitting behind a desk and
and
writing um and look at the example let's
say of an accident
insurance now if an insurance would pull
the risk of professional football
players with the risk of those people
who work behind a desk um then you can
automatically predict who the winners
will be and who the losers uh will be
the losers will obviously be the people
who sit behind the desk because very
unfrequently uh do they fall over uh and
break their neck whereas in the whereas
in the case of professional football
players that happens to be some daily
risk that that can occur so in that case
it is easy to predict that uh that the
desk worker so to speak would say I
don't want to pull my risk with the risk
of a professional football player I
rather pull my risk only with somebody
who
had does a similar occupation that is
similarly non dangerous as my U as my
own now in if we look at the market of
insurance um we would see that
competition uh defined as free entry
into the line of the insurance business
competition between insurers would
eliminate all systematic redistribution
should it somehow
exist um unless of course a motive of
voluntary subsidies on the part of the
losers would be involved that is to say
if I love professional football so much
and uh they are so dear to me uh that I
want to support them then I might want
to ensure myself with professional
football players also
but if this motive is not
present then obviously uh what would
happen would be that affirm that wrongly
grouped people with different group
risks into the same group uh that is
that mixed people with objectively
different risks in the same group would
be outco competed by other companies
that realize that some misg grouping has
has occurred
because the other insurance company
noticing hey there are obviously
significantly different risk groups
involved here would be able to offer
lower insurance premiums to the losers
and the losers then would shift from uh
the wrongly classifying insurer to the
insurance that classifies people in the
correct way and those football players
would then be left only with other
football players having to pay a higher
insurance premium reflecting the higher
risk of um of these
people
um so comp what we can say then is
competition between insurers would lead
to ever more and refined
subgrouping
um discriminate in according to the
actual group risk uh and the premiums
that they would charge would reflect
this genuine Insurance risk of people
who fall in the same group and the price
differentials that is the different
types of Premium uh charged um would uh
would reflect this difference in risk
that these various groups represent on
the average prices would tend to
before uh and the
Discrimination could be based on all
sorts of criteria that is something that
uh insurance companies would have to
learn in the course of time uh finding
out that they made mistakes there are
other insurance companies entering the
market doing different types of
discriminations charging lower rates or
higher rates um and so for and so forth
so this is as a preliminary introduction
into how Insurance uh works now I want
to come to the question of uh what type
of risks are
insurable uh what type of contingencies
what types of uh events what types of
contingency surprises are insurable and
what types of
uh contingency surprises are un are
uninsurable and I begin with what is
necessary in order to ensure something
what type of surprises can be
ensured um and there I want to begin
by um giving you first the definition
of Richard F mes
um
the theory of probability that Richard
F's
formulated is usually referred to as a
frequency
interpretation of
probability and he defines it in the
following
way
um
first it is possible to speak about
probabilities only in reference to a
properly defined
Collective Collective means nothing else
but a group uh a class of
individuals second so unless you have a
group unless you have a class every talk
about probability is nonsense according
to Richard
FES uh second
a collective appropriate for the
application of the theory of probability
must fulfill two
conditions the first condition is the
relative
frequencies of particular attributes
that is attributes are this occurs or
this does not occur uh person dies or
doesn't die a roller six or a roller
seven or five Mr a dice um my my dice
sometimes have seven things on it um so
as a relative frequency of particular
attributes within the collective tend to
fixed limits I'll explain it in a second
and the second condition is these fixed
limits are not affected by any place
selection I will explain that term in a
second also that is to say if we
calculate the relative frequency of some
attribute not in the original sequence
but in a partial set selected According
to some fixed rule then we require that
the relative frequency so calculated
should tend to be the same should tend
to the same limit as it does in the
original set and then he
says condition three is the Fulfillment
of condition two will be described as
the principle of Randomness or the
principle of the impossibility of a
gambling system and now I come to an
explanation of this that makes clearer
what he has in mind
here there he
says
um imagine for instance a road along
which Milestones are placed like large
ones for whole miles and small ones for
T of a mile if we walk along enough if
you walk long enough along this road
calculating the relative frequencies of
large Stones the value found in this way
um will lie around
one10 the deviations from the
value1 will become smaller and smaller
as the number of stones pass
increases in other words the relative
frequency tends toward the limiting
value of
0.1 this is the first condition that he
has but then he says that is condition
one is
fulfilled however absent in this case is
condition two
because the sequence of observations of
large or small stones differs
essentially from the sequence of
observations for instance of the results
of a game of chance which is of throwing
the dice in that the first sequence
obeys an easily recognizable
law exactly every T observation leads to
the attribute large and all others to
the attribute
small the essential difference between
the sequence of the results obtained by
casting Dice and the regular sequence of
large and small Milestones consists in
the possibility of devising a method of
selecting the elements so as to produce
a fundamental change in the relative
frequencies we begin for for instance
with a large Stone and register only
every second Stone
passed the relation of the relative
frequencies of small and large stones
will then converge toward one fths
instead of
one1 the impossibility of affecting the
chances of a game by a system of
selection this uselessness of all
systems of gambling is a characteristic
and decisive property common to all
sequences of observations or mass
phenomena which form the proper subject
of probability calculus the limiting
values of the relative frequencies in a
collective must be independent of all
possible place selections so you realize
with a milestone example if you choose a
certain selection mechanism of using the
members you get different limiting
values uh and because of that there are
so to speak laws that we can discover
about the behavior of small stones and
large Stones whereas we could not
observe anything like this when it comes
to throwing throwing a
dice um
now for my
purposes uh I want to just summarize
quickly the fundamental statements that
Richard Fus makes now as a consequence
of this definition of the range of
applicability of the probability
calculus first he
says
um and is quite emphatic about it that
the application of the term
probability to a single event such as
the probability of Mr X uh dying in the
course of the next year for instance is
utter
nonsense um there is no class defined at
all um you can obviously not form
ratios uh say one in 10 or one in 20 if
some refers if we are dealing with an
individual case uh you should realize
from the outset that when you listen to
TV and various economists talk about the
probability of such occurring the
probability of such occurring like the
probability of will the Deb ceiling be
increased or will it not be increased
they give you
numbers uh obviously they have not the
faintest idea of what probability Theory
uh is uh is all about this is just
um
I there is of course a way to say
something about how probable this sort
of thing is but it is not based on
probability calculus I can tell you the
probability is 100% that the dam thing
will be raised because they have done
that all the time before but this is not
based on long run frequency observation
that I that I have made but simply by
understanding how politics
Works
um and then he says the theory of
probability can never lead to a definite
statement concerning a single
event uh second uh misus is then rard
from Mis is equally insistent that the
probabilities of the probability
calculus are objective things empirical
properties and magnitudes rather than
subjective beliefs or degrees of
confidence they are based on experience
and further additional experience may
lead you to revise the measurements and
may lead you to a
reclassification of various singular
events into various
collectives um however only in referring
to OB objective probabilities can the
probability calculus ever be of any
practical use and third and this is an
implication of this he says um he
categorically rejects the notion of a
prior
probabilities no such thing as a priori
probabilities exist again let
me make
clear what his criticism is
of conceiving of probabilities not as
something objective
observable uh but of just uh degrees of
subjective uh confidence um as regard
the subjective uh element He says
um criticizes John Mayor canes who is a
subjective probability theorist um KES
for instance fails to recognize that if
we know nothing about a thing we cannot
say anything about it and it's its
probability and then he notes that the
peculiar approach of the
subjectivists lies in the fact that they
consider the statement I presume that
these cases are equally probable to be
equivalent to the statement these cases
are equally probable since for them
probability is only a subjective notion
so there is obviously a difference
between I think they are equally
probable and they are equally probable
and in order to find out whether they
are equally probable we have to make
observations we have to have data that
show that they
are um and as far as the idea of a
priori probabilities are concerned he
says it is frequently held that if one
plays with a perfect or correct coin
heads or
tails um and make sufficiently large
numbers of throws it is almost certain
that the proportion of heads will
deviate by less than one per Mill uh
from one/ half of all cases now with
regard to this we only note that trans I
from the arithmetic proposition to this
empirical proposition can be made only
in declaring a perfect coin to be one
for which the probability of both
outcomes is one half and thus defining
probability precisely in the way
suggested by us namely as relative
empirical frequency in Long sequences
so whether something is a perfect
coin must be shown also by engaging in
some sort of experimentation we cannot a
priori know that the coin is or the dice
is indeed a perfect coin or a perfect uh
um a per a perfect coin or a perfect U
perfect
dice
um now
getting a little little bit easier um
Frank Knight on on this
question uh again Frank
Knight
explaining what risks are to which the
probability calculus can be applied and
which refer to events against which
insurance is possible Frank Knight
says um
if all changes were to take place in
accordance with invariably and
universally known
laws they could be
foreseen for an indefinite period in
advance of their occurrence and would
not upset the perfect apportionment of
product values among contributing
agencies and profit and loss would not
arise now this is the same Insight that
you find also in misus when he talks
about uh General equilibrium or what he
calls the evenly rotating economy I'm
not sure if you have encountered this so
far in the lectures but Mis there
assumes what would happen if there is no
change occurring anymore whatsoever and
all future events could be perfectly
predicted would there then be profits
and losses and the answer that he gives
no profits and losses would then
disappear uh there would be still
uniform interest payment but profit and
losses are no longer in place uh if
there is no
uncertainty and no uncertainty in the
world and then Knight continues however
perfect foresight need not involves the
ability to forecast every singular event
and the absence of any kind of
contingency or surprise for profits and
losses to
disappear Knight explains then it is
unnecessary to perfect profitless
imputation that particular occurrences
be foreseeable if only all the
alternative possibilities are known and
the probability of the occurrence of
each can be accurately ascertained even
though the businessmen could not know in
advance the result of individual
Ventures he could operate and base his
competitive offers upon accurate for
knowledge of the future if quantitative
knowledge of the probability of every
possible outcome can be had for by
figuring on the basis of a large number
of Ventures whether of his own business
alone or that of business in general the
losses could be converted into fixed
costs thus for example the example will
make it clear what he has in mind the
bursting of B bottles when produce
champagne or so uh the bursting of B
bottles does not introduce an
uncertainty or Hazard into the business
of producing champagne since in the
operations of any producer a practically
constant and known proportion of B
bur it does not especially matter even
whether the proportion is large or small
these losses become a fixed cost and
even if a single producer does not deal
with a sufficiently large number of
cases of the contingency in question to
secure constanty in its effect the same
result May easily be realized through an
organization taking in large numbers of
producers this of course is the
principle of insurance as familiarly
illustrated by the chance of fire loss
no one can say whether a particular
building will burn and most building
owners do not operate on a sufficiently
large scale to reduce the cost to
constancy but it is well known the
effect uh of insurance is to extend the
space and to cover the operations of a
large number of persons and convert the
contingency into a fixed
cost so this is Knight nowhere refers to
uh R for mes um Knight could read German
um but I don't think Knight was
interested in uh in mathematics that
much and Richard F mes had come out with
his uh main articles on the subject just
a few years before uh Knight published
uh Knight published his book but the
idea is precise precisely the same only
where the probability calculus can be
applied where we have a collective uh
where Place selection is impossible only
those things are
insurable um now lud
mes um
lud for mea
says
um in order to be
insurable uh something must be given
that he calls class probability class
probability obviously related to this
idea of a collective that uh rard
mentioned interestingly even though lud
forus wrote his stuff much later than
his brother did um he does not refer in
the sections that deal with his problems
to his brother at all
um I I indicated the two brothers had
some sort of difficult relationship with
each other so they might not have likeed
to site each
other
um he says the condition that must be
fulfilled is uh the
following um I the insurer and the
insured as assume to know with regard to
the risk
concerned everything about the behavior
of the whole class or the group or the
collective of
events but about the singular event me
dying tomorrow you dying tomorrow uh
about the singular event we know
nothing but that they are elements of
this class that is we know uh everything
about the class of males at age 62 for
instance but about the risk applying to
me as an individual falling into this
class we know nothing except that I'm
also 62 and are a member of this
group
um for example I assume to know
everything based on objective long run
frequency distributions about the risk
of hurricane damage to the residents of
some specified territory but about any
particular individual and his particular
risk I know nothing except that I'm a
resident of this territory for which we
do have uh these uh uh frequencies
calculated now you you note the
character of this definition the
definition that Mees here gives first
implies the absence of any systematic
redistribution that takes place what I
pointed out at the beginning about
insurance if I know nothing about any
particular person's risk except that he
is a member of a group with such and
such a group risk then all
redistribution must be random must be
unpredictable um it also imply so to
speak the homogeneity of all cases I
know nothing that distinguishes other
people who are 62 from me who are
62 as far as uh our likelihood of
being dying this in the next year is uh
is concerned um and even in so far as I
know nothing about a particular
individual within a group except that it
belongs to this group then and in so far
as they are homogeneous this also
implies that things that are insurable
must have the character of an
accident um in order to be insurable
events now then the
question what types of surprises what
types of contingencies are
uninsurable
um and there Misa says that is the
case if I
know with regard to a particular
risk some or all of the factors
determining its
outcome if I do know something about an
individual
case only about this individual case
that has some
influence
or total influence on the outcome then
we have a case of case
probability in front in front of us and
as far as case probability is concerned
we can never make numerical statements
because it is just an individual case
um now if we raise the question what
types of events are of this nature that
is cannot be insured because we know
something about individual cases then
misus is not always perfectly clear on
this but the answer is that when it
comes to human
actions then we can say human actions
are indeed always singular event
why are they always singular events why
can we not classify human actions into
classes of events about which we have uh
objective probabilities collected and
the answer is for individual actions of
course we always do know what the motive
of this guy was what the reason of this
guy was what the knowledge was that he
had at this point in time what the
knowledge was that he had at another
point in time that is we have a method
of place selection that is the method of
place selection is the method of
understanding people we can understand
individual
situations I can distinguish your
action uh from the action of somebody
else by knowing you by knowing your
motives I cannot distinguish one stone
falling from another Stone falling uh
because there is no way of me to
understand what the stone is thinking if
he is thinking anything at all um so
while accidents can
be insured
against
actions that are individually motive
motivated and driven by individual
knowledge uh actually
can and the results of actions cannot be
um uh cannot be insured against um but
are something that falls into the realm
of individual responsibility and this is
a task of entrepreneurs so to speak to
predict these sorts of things but not
predict them according to objective
probabilities now now to Applications
as I said I have control over my actions
you have control over your actions hence
every risk that may be influenced by my
actions is
uninsurable and what is not controllable
through individual actions is insurable
provided long run objective frequency
distributions exist and if something
that was not controllable becomes
controllable then it loses its
insurability status with respect to
risks of the type of natural disasters
floods hurricanes earthquakes fires
insurance is obviously possible um
because these events are outside of
individual control I know nothing about
my individual risk except that I'm a
member of a certain group of individuals
on the other hand take risks like
suicide um or arson or unemployment or
not getting up in the morning um these
are uninsurable events because I do have
control over this I cannot ensure myself
against burning my own house down
because I obviously do have control over
this I cannot ensure myself against
becoming unemployed because I also have
control over this whether it is Big
control or small control does not matter
all that much um you can always accept a
lower wage rate for instance and you did
before and you can become instantly
unemployed if you kick your boss in the
behind
um so there are many ways that you can
affect the likelihood of being
unemployed or being uh or being employed
for that reason unemployment insurance
is impossible that we have something
that is called unemployment insurance uh
means nothing uh governments always find
nice words for things that are obviously
completely different from what they
really from what they really are uh
Social Security is another example that
is obv um that is obviously precisely
social insecurity but they call it of
course Social Security um I obviously uh
cannot ensure myself against feeling ill
in the morning and not wanting to get
out of out of bed if I could ensure
myself against it I would pay the
premium I would always feel ill and not
get out of uh not get out of bed
um I cannot Ure myself against
committing suicide
tomorrow um because if that were my
intention to kill myself I pay the
premium my wife will be a millionaire
tomorrow and I'm dead insurance
companies that do this sort of stuff
will not last for very long in um in the
market um in all of these cases we we
cannot really say um you know um that
that
um all I'm a person and like all other
persons I'm afflicted by this risk of
not feeling good in the morning and not
getting up we know that we have control
over this and we know that people do not
fall into one and the same class but are
different individuals and this sort of
stuff belongs into the realm of
individual
responsibility and is unin
uninsurable I can also not ensure myself
against making business
losses uh because obviously it is easy
as pie to make losses if I ensure myself
make losses and then I collect uh from
the insurance company I can also not
insure myself against fractional Reserve
banking uh because if I can ensure
myself I have hold EX I will hold zero
reserves uh and in that case my
bankruptcy is guaranteed uh so no
insurance company would ever take on a
risk such uh such as uh such as
this um so now applying this further to
health
insurance
um the immediate Insight is obviously
that health insurance insurance is
insurable only in so far as the health
risk for a given group is
accidental such as maybe accident
Insurance uh being stricken by cancer
some bodily melt functioning and so
forth but since most health risks and
with the advance of medical technology
more and more of such risks fall within
the province of individual control very
little in this field is actually
insurable um such risks again must be
assumed individually and paid out of
pocket or out of individual
savings um now it is
noteworthy um that uh in all recent
discussions about uh Health Care
reform uh this has been almost
completely overlooked is that there is
no way that we can this type of stuff
well most of it at least except for
misus early on in his career in his book
socialism uh he wrote he wrote this
great foresight he said to the
intellectual champions of social
insurance and to the politicians and
statemen who enacted it illness and
health appeared as two conditions of the
human body sharply separated from each
other and always recognizable ible
without difficult or doubt any doctor
could diagnose the characteristics of
health and illness was a Bly phenomenon
which showed itself independent of the
human will and was not susceptible to
influence by will now every statement in
this theory is false he says there is no
clear defined Frontier between health
and illness being ill is not a
phenomenon independent of conscious will
and of forces working in the
subconscious a man's efficiency is not
merely the result of his physical
condition it depends largely on his mind
and will thus the whole idea of being
able to separate by medical examination
the unfit from the fit and from the
malingerers and those able to work from
those unable to work proves to be
untenable those who believed that
accident in health insurance could be
based on completely effective means of
ascertaining illnesses and injuries and
their consequences were very much
mistaken the destruiste of accident and
health insurance lies above all in the
fact that such institutions promote
accidents and illness hinder recovery
and very often create or at least
intensify and lengthen the functional
disorders which follow from illness or
accidents I should mention
to underline this Insight uh that if you
look simply at um self-employed people
on the one hand as compared with let's
say 10 yard University professors or in
the German system B that are uh have
life guaranteed jobs if you look at how
frequently they are sick uh you find a
clear difference between them
self-employed people keep working under
circumstances where all 10 yard
University professors would long have
turned in an application that for five
six weeks they would be unable to
perform their duties which might be
actually better sometimes if they
wouldn't
do so as regard Health one would expect
that most risks are assumed individual
in individual and insurance would be
limit to the strict accident variety of
risk with strictly limited coverage and
so
forth now if we look at the present
world then however we find some
fundamental
difference um and to make it to make it
brief I'm running almost out of time
here
um to explain what what has happened in
the current world is
this due to various regulations of
insurance companies two things have
happened first insurance companies are
by law
prohibited from discriminating groups
correctly that is people are pulled in
groups who clearly belong into different
groups um in Europe if I remember
correctly there was just some uh law
past that any type of difference in
health insurance premiums for males and
females would be outlawed despite the
fact that there are significantly
different health risks for males and
females in existence which every
Actuarial would be able to uh to tell
you so and I'll give you a few examples
of what sort of nonsense regulations
there um exist in this uh in this Regard
in a in a moment and the second thing
is that insurance companies are not only
legally required not to discriminate
even though they know it they should
discriminate and group people into
different groups the second thing is
that insurance companies are also
obliged to insure people against
uninsurable risks
a few examples of
this there huge amount of mandates I
have not followed this sort of stuff
closely anymore just years ago that I
looked into this
um in 1991 for instance there existed
992 regulations that insurance companies
had to follow in order to be allowed to
operate as an insurance company give you
some examples here
um treatment of alcoholism must be
covered by insurance companies in 49
states even though obviously that
doesn't apply to everyone in the same
way uh Islamic PE people for instance
drink very little alcohol they would not
need this sort of stuff um drug
addiction in 27 states in the meantime
I'm sure the numbers are even higher uh
use of chiropractors in 45 of pod
podiatrist this the foot doctors 37
psych shrinks in 36 States um I mean I
know people who love to go to shrinks
because they always think that they have
some some some ailment and I know other
I know other people would never in in
their entire life see the see the office
of a shrink but the price must be
covered of course for those who do go to
shrinks all the time um social social
workers the same thing in 27 in 22
States in
1991 um in Georgia heart transplants
must be must be covered by insurance
companies despite the fact that again
not all people are equally likely
requiring a heart
transplant uh in Illinois liver
transplant uh in Minnesota very nice
hair pieces um even though it should be
perfectly clear that I mean I know my
father never lost his hair my
grandfather never lost his hair I will
not lose my hair so I don't need this
but I if I I'm insured I must cover that
cost
also um in uh California marriage
counseling that is of of course a state
where that is really very urgent uh very
urgent topic um pastoral Counseling in
Vermont and sperm banking in
Massachusetts uh um California also
Outlaws any type of genetic testing in
order to determine whether you belong in
this risk group or that risk group even
though in many cases of course you can
very easily determine U by simple tests
that this guy must be in this group and
that guy must be in that group there
exist certain disease certain diseases
that occur only if certain people have
uh things that can be uh can be
immediately determined by a genetic uh
uh
examination um now what is the
consequence of these
mandates now what you can imagine is of
course the
price for medical insurance continuously
Rises as a consequence of this because
all that nonsense has to be covered they
are required to cover all of this um
what is then the consequence of
prices for insurance premiums
continually going
up it is that more and more people will
opt to drop out of insurance entirely
because they say look this doesn't apply
to me why in the world should I just
ensure myself against uh having uh
getting a wig uh paid by the insurance
company why in the world should I insure
myself against alcoholism if I'm uh if
I'm not drinking a a drop of alcohol not
that that applies to me but uh there are
people like this obviously um so more
and more people come to the
conclusion hey I I have to pay for all
sorts of nonsense none of that applies
to me and they drop out entirely what is
then the consequence now those people
who remain in the system of course must
then pay still higher premium
so here we have a case of uh the what
what misus describes in the Dynamics of
interventionism one intervention leads
to the next intervention and that leads
to the next intervention so what do you
do if people drop out prices even go up
higher then you have to introduce
compulsory
Insurance um that is people are no
longer allowed to drop out of this
nonsense system they must be in there
um and what happens if the prices then
continue to go up what then happens is
eventually they will introduce some sort
of rationing system um that is then
politicians will be the ones that
determine what are good diseases that
deserve to be treated and what are bad
diseases that do not uh deserve to be
treated um that is the government then
becomes like Dr Koran um determining who
can live and who must and who must die
um and as you can see in the United
States we are approaching this type of
system uh quickly where it will be uh
our beloved members of Congress and
Senate and presidents and whatever they
are who determine who is a good guy and
is allowed to be treated uh and relieved
of his ailments and who are the bad guys
and who deserve to die thank you very
much
[Applause]
[Music]